In Seeing Systems, especially when trying to build behaviours in a balcony direction, we need a combination of balcony tops and balcony bottoms. There is a relationship that builds on the balcony traits of each side.

Clean Scoping is a practical way of seeing if these necessary conditions exist, so that in Caitlins case she can decide if she wants to work with a client.

The two models are complimentary.

Caitlin is explicitly trying to create a system that is capable of solving the problems that it is likely to face - by working at a high level in the organisaion, and ensuring that balcony customer behaviour already exists. - People don't just want their problem solving for them, they want to be part of the solution.

At work we're interested in how to develop this behaviour.

The purpose of the initial clean scoping is to find balcony customer behaviour that does not need to be fed or worked on. For the person doing the modelling "Do I even want this work?"

The behaviour we want to have happen is

Balcony Top -> Balcony Bottom -> Balcony Customer .

What do we see and hear when Balcony Bottom behaviour?

When do you naturally get the thing you're trying to get more of?

What happening at the moment?

What is working well?

What is not working well?

What would need to happen, so what you want to have happen in automatic?

What would need to be true for people to naturally behave like this?

What is happening at the moment? Usually uncomfortable patterns are what is happening as the difference between what we ask of others and what we ask of ourselves.

Patterns are from biases, often confirmation bias that ensures that patterns from the past continue. The 'blind reflex' is precisely why we are here, and not somewhere else.

Acknowledge what is true, is true, so worldviews and perspectives and metaphor models are in place here.

What would need to be true for people to naturally behave like this? People working to their own strengths, and acknowledging each others contributions.
