
Background

I'm training to be a Coach, using a technique based in the clients metaphor models. Metaphors work well with many people. The metaphors we use can reveal a lot hidden understanding about a situation. They can also hide understanding. A very common outcome of the coaching is people getting a much deeper understanding of how they feel about and understand a situation.

I was unsure about scientists using metaphors. I think metaphors may be seen as lacking precision and rigour.

The book "Seven Brief Lessons on Physics" by Carlo Rovelli, which made me reconsider if physicists use metaphors. My next thought was wondering if developing the metaphors that physicists use in their work may help them look at problems differently. I'd like to investigate if this is the case.

Some of the metaphors in Seven Brief Lessons:
p5 Large box, surface of a lake, transports electrical force

p6 Gigantic snail shell, racing in space like a marble in a funnel

p7 the surface of hills

p12 packets or lumps of energy

p14 jump and leap

p21 Scientific thought is fed through the capacity to see things differently. This is both a metaphor AND a perhaps a reason to develop and understand the metaphors we have.

Maybe these metaphors are just used because it's a popular science book. But investigation of them may challenge the underlying understanding?

What would I like?

I'd like to do some 1-2-1 coaching with researchers to see if understanding and developing metaphor models helps then look at problems.

Sessions are usually between 30-60 minutes. I work at UoN Kings Meadow Campus, so University Park during lunchtimes or after work is great.

A quiet office or meeting room would be required.

I don't think anyone has tried this method of creativity, so it should be interesting.

Examples of Metaphor Coaching

This is an example of coaching, I'd take a slightly different approach with physics, but the overall idea is the same, to understand how someone sees a situation to get insights that help progress the situation.

https://cleanlearning.co.uk/resources/faq/what-is-clean-language

I've worked with a German chap called Olaf. He says he can only do metaphor modeling in English, which he finds a bit odd, but I don't think 1st/2nd language issues would be a problem.


